Add CoAP high-level description (#13554)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/reference/networking/coap.rst

Overview
********

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a specialized web transfer
protocol for use with constrained nodes and constrained (e.g., low-power,
lossy) networks. It provides a convenient API for RESTful Web services
that support CoAP's features. For more information about the protocol
itself, see `IETF RFC7252 The Constrained Application Protocol <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7252>`_.

> Zephyr provides CoAP library which supports client and server roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zephyr provides a CoAP library which supports client and server roles.
```

The library is configurable as per user needs. The Zephyr CoAP library

> implemented on plain buffers. User's of the API has to create sockets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is implemented using plain buffers. Users of the API create sockets
```

> for communication and pass the buffer to library for parsing and other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for communication and pass the buffer to the library for parsing and other
```

purposes. The library itself doesn't create any sockets for users.

On top of CoAP, Zephyr has support for LWM2M “Lightweight Machine 2 Machine”

> which is a simple, low-cost remote management and service enablement mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocol, a simple, low-cost remote management and service enablement mechanism.
```

> see :ref:`lwm2m_interface`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`lwm2m_interface` for more information.
```

> Supported RFCs:

Reviewer: Change these next lines to fix formatting and add links:
```
Supported RFCs:

- `RFC7252: The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7252>`_
- `RFC6690: Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6690>`_
- `RFC7959: Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7959>`_
- `RFC7641: Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7641>`_

.. note:: Not all parts of these RFCs are supported. Features are supported based on Zephyr requirements.
```

    1) RFC7252 [The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)]
    2) RFC6690 [Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format]
    3) RFC7959 [Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)]
    4) RFC7641 [Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)]

.. note: Not every part of the RFC is supported. Features are supported based on the
    requirement.

Sample Usage
************

CoAP Server
===========

> To create a CoAP server, resources for server need to be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a CoAP server, resources for the server need to be defined.
```

> This (.well-known/core) resource should be added before all other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``.well-known/core`` resource should be added before all other
```

> resources that should be included in the responses of the .well-known/core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources that should be included in the responses of the ``.well-known/core``
```

resource.

.. code-block:: c

    static struct coap_resource resources[] = {
        { .get = well_known_core_get,
          .path = COAP_WELL_KNOWN_CORE_PATH,
        },
        { .get  = sample_get,
          .post = sample_post,
          .del  = sample_del,
          .put  = sample_put,
          .path = sample_path
        },
        { },
    };

> When user reads data from the socket, hand over the buffer to CoAP library

Reviewer: Fixing spelling and grammar, and simplifying (hope I got this right):
```
An application reads data from the socket and passes the buffer to the CoAP library
to parse the message. If the CoAP message is proper, the library uses the buffer
along with resources defined above to call the correct callback function
to handle the CoAP request from the client.
```

to parse the message. If the CoAP message is proper then input the buffer
along with resources defined above to library to handle CoAP request from
client. Library will takes the responsibility to call correct callback.
Now its callback responsibilty to handle the request (either reply or
act according to CoAP request).

.. code-block:: c

    coap_packet_parse(&request, data, data_len, options, opt_num);
    ...
    coap_handle_request(&request, resources, options, opt_num,
                        client_addr, client_addr_len);

CoAP Client
===========

> If the CoAP client knows about resources in CoAP server, client can start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the CoAP client knows about resources in the CoAP server, the client can
```

> prepare CoAP requests and wait for responses. If client doesn't know

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prepare CoAP requests and wait for responses. If the client doesn't know
```

> resources in CoAP server it can request resources through ".well-known/core"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about resources in the CoAP server, it can request resources through the ``.well-known/core``
```

CoAP message.

.. code-block:: c

    /* Initialize the CoAP message */
    char *path = "test";
    struct coap_packet request;
    u8_t data[100];
    u8_t payload[20];

    coap_packet_init(&request, data, sizeof(data),
                     1, COAP_TYPE_CON, 8, coap_next_token(),
                     COAP_METHOD_GET, coap_next_id());

    /* Append options */
    coap_packet_append_option(&request, COAP_OPTION_URI_PATH,
                              path, strlen(path));

    /* Append Payload marker if you are going to add payload */
    coap_packet_append_payload_marker(&request);

    /* Append payload */
    coap_packet_append_payload(&request, (u8_t *)payload,
                               sizeof(payload) - 1);

    /* send over sockets */

Testing
*******

There are various ways to test Zephyr CoAP library.

libcoap
=======
libcoap implements a lightweight application-protocol for devices that are

> constrained their resources such as computing power, RF range, memory, bandwdith,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource constrained, such as by computing power, RF range, memory, bandwidth,
```

or network packet sizes. Sources can be found here `libcoap <https://github.com/obgm/libcoap>`_.

> libcoap has a script (examples/etsi_coaptest.sh) to test coap-server functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libcoap has a script (``examples/etsi_coaptest.sh``) to test coap-server functionality
```

in Zephyr.

See the `net-tools <https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/net-tools>`_ project for more details

> `coap-server-sample` can be built and executed on QEMU as described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`coap-server-sample` sample can be built and executed on QEMU as described
```

in :ref:`networking_with_qemu`.

Use this command on the host to run the libcoap implementation of
the ETSI test cases:

.. code-block:: console

   sudo ./libcoap/examples/etsi_coaptest.sh -i tap0 2001:db8::1

TTCN3
=====
Eclipse has TTCN3 based tests to run against CoAP implementations.

Install eclipse-titan and set symbolic links for titan tools

.. code-block:: console

    sudo apt-get install eclipse-titan

    cd /usr/share/titan

    sudo ln -s /usr/bin bin
    sudo ln /usr/bin/titanver bin
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/mctr_cli bin
    sudo ln -s /usr/include/titan include
    sudo ln -s /usr/lib/titan lib

    export TTCN3_DIR=/usr/share/titan

    git clone https://github.com/eclipse/titan.misc.git

    cd titan.misc

> Follow the instruction to setup CoAP test suite from here

Reviewer: Change to:
```
Follow the instruction to setup CoAP test suite from here:

- https://github.com/eclipse/titan.misc
- https://github.com/eclipse/titan.misc/tree/master/CoAP_Conf
```

https://github.com/eclipse/titan.misc
https://github.com/eclipse/titan.misc/tree/master/CoAP_Conf

> After make, run the `coap-server-sample` can be built and executed on QEMU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the build is complete, the :ref:`coap-server-sample` sample can be built and executed on QEMU
```

Overview
********

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a specialized web transfer
protocol for use with constrained nodes and constrained (e.g., low-power,
lossy) networks. It provides a convenient API for RESTful Web services
that support CoAP's features. For more information about the protocol
itself, see `IETF RFC7252 The Constrained Application Protocol <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7252>`_.

Zephyr provides a CoAP library which supports client and server roles.
The library is configurable as per user needs. The Zephyr CoAP library

> is implemented using plain buffers. Users of the API has to create sockets

Reviewer: Either change to ``Users of the API create sockets...`` or ``Users of the API have to create sockets ...`` (my preference is the first option).

- `RFC7641: Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7641>`_

.. note:: Not all parts of these RFCs are supported. Features are supported based on Zephyr requirements.

Sample Usage
************

CoAP Server
===========

To create a CoAP server, resources for the server need to be defined.
The ``.well-known/core`` resource should be added before all other
resources that should be included in the responses of the ``.well-known/core``
resource.

.. code-block:: c

    static struct coap_resource resources[] = {
        { .get = well_known_core_get,
          .path = COAP_WELL_KNOWN_CORE_PATH,
        },
        { .get  = sample_get,
          .post = sample_post,
          .del  = sample_del,
          .put  = sample_put,
          .path = sample_path
        },
        { },
    };

An application reads data from the socket and passes the buffer to the CoAP library
to parse the message. If the CoAP message is proper, the library uses the buffer
along with resources defined above to call the correct callback function

> to handle the CoAP request from the client. Now its callback responsibilty to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to handle the CoAP request from the client. It's the callback function's responsibility to
```

> handle the request (either reply or act according to CoAP request).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either reply or act according to the CoAP request.
```
